# Creating a XACML Policy

At the root of all XACML policies is a **Policy** or a **PolicySet** . A
**Policy** represents a single access control policy, expressed through
a set of rules. A **PolicySet** is a container that can hold other
Policies or PolicySets, as well as references to policies found in
remote locations. Each XACML policy document contains exactly one Policy
or PolicySet root XML tag. Because a Policy or PolicySet may contain
multiple policies or Rules, each of which may evaluate to different
access control decisions, XACML needs some way of reconciling the
decisions each makes. This is done through a collection of Combining
Algorithms. Each algorithm represents a different way of combining
multiple decisions into a single decision.

WSO2 Identity Server XACML support will provide two methods of writing
an XACML Policy.

-   Some predefined commonly used XACML Policy template samples where
    you can use by editing according to your use case.

    !!! note
    
        To get more details on available XACML templates. [Read
        me](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS540/Writing+a+XACML+Policy+using+a+Policy+Template)
        .
    

-   A set of UI editors to create an XACML policy using UI
    configurations.

The below steps explain how you can create an XACML policy using the
management console of WSO2 Identity Server.

1.  Sign in. Log in to the [Management
    Console](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS540/Getting+Started+with+the+Management+Console)
    using your username and password.
2.  Navigate to the **Main** menu to access the **Entitlement** menu.
    Click **Policy Administration** under **PAP** .
3.  Click **Add New Entitlement Policy** .  
    ![](attachments/103331171/103331194.png){width="750"}

The **Add New Policy** page appears which gives the 6 ways of writing an
XACML 3.0 policy. You can select one out of six methods to create the
policy using UI according to your preference as follows.  

-   [Simple Policy Editor](#CreatingaXACMLPolicy-SimplePolicyEditor)
-   [Basic Policy Editor](#CreatingaXACMLPolicy-BasicPolicyEditor)
-   [Standard Policy Editor](#CreatingaXACMLPolicy-StandardPolicyEditor)
-   [Policy Set Editor](#CreatingaXACMLPolicy-PolicySetEditor)
-   [Import Existing Policy](#CreatingaXACMLPolicy-ImportExistingPolicy)
-   [Write Policy in XML](#CreatingaXACMLPolicy-WritePolicyinXML)

  
![](attachments/103331171/103331175.png){width="750"}  

#### **Simple Policy Editor**

-   This simple editor provides you the opportunity to create XACML 3.0
    policies without any knowledge of XACML policy language. You can
    define your rules in a simpler manner and create an XACML 3.0 policy
    out of them. However, you need to have some knowledge about access
    control rules.  
      

![](attachments/103331171/103331173.png){width="750"}

This editor is based on four categories which we are mostly talking
about access control rules. i.e User, Resource, Action, and Environment
where **User** is the person who is going to access the resource,
**Resource** is an entity that we are trying to protect with access
control rules, **Action** is, what user is going to perform on Resource
and **Environment** is the time, domain or any other factors that could
cause to control the user’s access.

In the Simple Editor, you can see the following,

**Entitlement Policy Name** : Name of the policy.

**Entitlement Policy Description:** A description of the policy.

**This policy is based on** : Define **based on** what entity, that you
are going to write this policy.

!!! note
    
    Note
    
    If you are writing policy based on web service. You can select
    “Resource” category and continue. Or less, if you are writing policy
    based on email domain of users. You can select “Subject” category and
    select the “Email” attribute Id and then define the email.
    

**You can define multiple permit rules:** As an example, “Only users in
admin role can do GET” This rule can be defined as follows. You need to
select “Role” attribute id for “User” and fill the text box with the
role name (admin) and then fill the text box of near “Action” with
action name (GET)

**Deny rule** **is automatically created as the final rule** . Permitted
rules are **evaluated from top to blow** .

!!! note
    
    Important
    
    -   If you want to define value as java regexp expression, you need to
        embedded value in the **curly brackets “{ }”**
    
    Ex : ***{ ^(\[a-zA-Z0-9\_.-\])+@ [wso2.com](http://wso2.com/) }***
    
    -   If you want to define multiple values as OR or AND value sets. you
        can separate those multiple values with **“\|” or “&”** separates
    
    Ex : ***read \| write \| delete***
    
    Ex : ***ReadRole & WriteRole***
    
    -   If you want to define value as a greater or lesser than value. you
        can use **“\<” or “\>” ( We do not support "\>=" or "\<=")**
    
    Ex  : ***\< 34***
    
    -   If you want to define two values that are in a range, you can use
        square brackets **“\[ \]”** and round brackets **“(  )”** . And two
        values are coma **“, “** separated.
    
    Ex: ***\[09:00:00+05:00, 16:00:00+05:00\]** time between 09.00am and
    04.00 pm*
    
    Ex: ***(18, 30\]*** *greater than 18 and less than or equal to 30*
    

##### A sample policy example: This policy is defined for accessing “foo” resource

*Following are the access control rules that policy needs to be
satisfied*

-   Rule1: Resources under “foo” collection can be read, written, edited
    and deleted by the users in the admin role.
-   Rule 2: Resources under “foo/wso2″ collection can be read by only
    the users in the WSO2 (whose email address is
    [wso2.com](http://wso2.com/) domain) regex for email (
    **^(\[a-zA-Z0-9\_.-\])+@ [wso2.com](http://wso2.com/)** )between
    9.00am and 4.00pm ( **09:00:00+05:00, 16:00:00+05:00** )
-   All other access requests to “foo” resource must be denied.

You can build the above-mentioned policy example using Simple Policy
Editor as shown below. Here, "foo" can be the main resource and the
other resource “foo/wso2″ can be the child resource. If you have further
resources to evaluate you can add them as child resources by clicking on
![](attachments/103331171/103331174.png) the icon and create separate
rules.

![](attachments/103331171/103331197.png){width="1026"}

#### Basic Policy Editor

-   This editor is based on four categories which we are mostly talking
    about access control rules. i.e Subject, Resource, Action and
    Environment.  
      
-   You can define a target and multiple rules in the policy. Rules can
    be ordered.  
      
-   You can plug any attribute value sources and select those attribute
    values when creating the policy; rather than filling text boxes by
    your own. By default, WSO2 registry resources, Roles of the
    underline user store and some pre-defined actions are the attribute
    value sources for the resource, subject and action attributes
    respectively. There are extension points that you can use to extend
    and bring more attribute values on to the policy editor UI.

In the Basic Editor, you can see the following,

**Entitlement Policy Name** : Name of the policy.

**Entitlement Policy Description:** A description of the policy.

**The policy is going to be evaluated Only when following matched:**
*You can define; for what attribute values, this policy is going to be
applied (or picked). This is similar to defining the policy target
element.*

**Define Entitlement Rule(s):** You can define rules which you want to
evaluate after they are matched with above.

##### A sample policy requirement:

-   This access control policy is written for the patient records of
    Medi Hospital. Patient records are stored in a location under
    “/patient/” directory. Therefore we are defining access control
    rules for “/patient/” directory.  
      
-   Users can only access patient records from 09.00pm to 04.00pm.  
      
-   Patient records can be created, deleted by users in MedAdminstrator
    role.  
      
-   Patient records can be updated and read by users in MediStaff
    role.  
      
-   All other access requests to patient records must be denied.

Let's implement this sample policy using Basic Policy Editor,

**Step1:** Define a name for the policy.

[![1](https://i1.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/1.png?resize=780%2C215){.aligncenter
.wp-image-429 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="214"}](https://i1.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/1.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 2:** This is similar to defining the policy target element.
Configure it such as ***“policy is applied for resource attribute value
/patient//\*  with reg-ex match”*** .

[![2](https://i1.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/2.png?resize=780%2C362){.aligncenter
.wp-image-430 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="361"}](https://i1.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/2.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 3:** Define the 1st rule. The rule is “Users can only access
patient records from 09.00pm to 04.00pm”. It means that if the user
tries to access records any other time, the user must be denied.
Therefore, we are writing a deny rule for users who are not accessing
patient records from 09.00pm to 04.00pm. Therefore first, let define a
rule name and also define the rule effect as “Deny”. Then Select “Time”
from the environment.  Select functions as “is not” and  “greater than
and less than”. Write the time with GMT offset value.  After defining
you can add this rule to the policy.

[![3](https://i0.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/3.png?resize=780%2C386){.aligncenter
.wp-image-431 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="386"}](https://i0.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/3.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

  

  

**Step 4:** Define the 2nd rule. Rule name must be given. Then select
“Role” as user’s attribute. You can select your “MedAdminstrator” role
name from user attribute source. So just click on the icon.

[![4](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/4.png?resize=780%2C370){.aligncenter
.wp-image-432 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="369"}](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/4.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 5:** You can do a search for attributes values.

[![5](https://i0.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/5.png?resize=780%2C184){.aligncenter
.wp-image-433 .size-large width="778"
height="183"}](https://i0.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/5.png)

**Step 6:** Select only the “MediAdminstrator” role from the attribute
source.

[![7](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/7.png?resize=780%2C392){.aligncenter
.wp-image-434 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="390"}](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/7.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 7:** You can see, the text box has been filled with the selected
“MediAdminstrator” role name. Now let define actions. Here let us make
the function name as “at-least-one”. Then this rule would be satisfied
even when at least one action is going to perform.  Finally, let us add
this rule in to the policy

[![8](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/8.png?resize=780%2C370){.aligncenter
.wp-image-435 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="369"}](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/8.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 8:** Let's define the 3rd rule. Which allows “MediStaff” roles to
access the resource with action read and edit. You can follow same
***steps 4, 5, 6, 7.*** Then finally, add this rule into the policy.

[![13](https://i1.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/13.png?resize=780%2C377){.aligncenter
.wp-image-436 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="376"}](https://i1.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/13.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 9:** Finally define the rule to deny all other access,  as
follows:

[![14](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/14.png?resize=780%2C408){.aligncenter
.wp-image-437 .size-large .image-left width="778"
height="407"}](https://i2.wp.com/xacmlinfo.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/14.png)

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**  
**

**Step 10:** We have defined the target and rules.  Now it is time to
define the rule-combining algorithm. Let select is as “first
applicable”. Then rule effect of the 1st rule that is evaluated
properly,  would be the final result of the policy.

You can click on “finish” and finish policy creation.

#### Standard Policy Editor

-   The standard policy editor is little similar to Basic Policy Editor.
    But it is basically designed for creating XACML 3.0 policy rules.
    Because there are several improvements with Obligation in XACML 3.0
    when compare to 2.0. In XACML 2.0, obligations can only be added to
    policies and policy sets. But with XACML 3.0, rules can also contain
    Obligations. Therefore, if you want to get details of the
    obligations after the policy evaluated, It is good to use the
    Standard Policy Editor.  
      
-   As in Basic Policy Editor, there is a place to define the conditions
    which make the rules evaluated as " **The policy is evaluated only
    when** **following are matched** " and a place to define entitlement
    rules.  
    **  
    **
-   **Advice** is a newly introduced feature with XACML 3.0 which is
    similar to Obligations. But only different, when compared to
    Obligations, PEPs do not have to comply with advice statements. PEPs
    can consider or discard the statement. A common use case is to
    explain why something was denied. “User Bob is denied because he has
    not a valid email”  
      
-   Here the attribute " **Define Policy Obligation or Advice** " is not
    mandatory.

![](attachments/103331171/103331172.png){width="750"}

##### A sample policy requirement:

-   This access control policy is written for the patient records of
    Medi Hospital. Patient records are stored in a location under
    “/patient/” directory. Therefore we are defining access control
    rules for “/patient/” directory.  
      
-   Users can only access patient records from 09.00pm to 04.00pm.  
      
-   Patient records can be created, deleted by users in MedAdminstrator
    role.  
      
-   Patient records can be updated and read by users in MediStaff
    role.  
      
-   All other access requests to patient records must be denied.

Since this editor is very similar to Basic Policy Editor we can use the
same steps from **Step 1** to **Step 9** to configure the above
requirement in Advance Policy Editor.

**  
**

**Step 10** : In advance, if you want to see the details of the
obligation after the policy evaluated, you can by defining a policy
obligation or advice as follows:

![](attachments/103331171/103331199.png){width="750" height="437"}

**  
**

**Step 11:** We have defined the target, rules, and obligation.  Now it
is time to define the rule-combining algorithm. Let select is as “first
applicable”. Then rule effect of the 1st rule that is evaluated
properly,  would be the final result of the policy.

You can click on “finish” and finish policy creation.

#### Policy Set Editor

When you want to create a set of policies to evaluate at one time, you
can create a **Policy Set** . You can add policies as shown in the
figure and Click "Finish" to create the policy set.  
![](attachments/103331171/103331196.png){width="1026"}

#### Import Existing Policy

You can add a policy by using a policy XML file.

-   Write a policy in an XML file and upload it.

![](attachments/103331171/103331183.png){width="750"}

Click **Choose File** and browse to the location of the policy in your
local machine.

#### Write Policy in XML

![](attachments/103331171/103331181.png){width="750"} !!! note
    
    Note
    
    There are **Policy Combining Algorithms** which are used by *Policy
    Sets* and **Rule Combining Algorithms** which are used by *Policies* .
    Each of the algorithms mentioned below has its Policy Combining
    algorithm and its Rule Combining algorithms as follows:
    
    -   Standard combining algorithms defined in XACML 3.0:
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:rule-combining-algorithm:deny-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:policy-combining-algorithm:deny-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:rule-combining-algorithm:permit-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:policy-combining-algorithm:permit-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:1.0:rule-combining-algorithm:first-applicable
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:1.0:policy-combining-algorithm:first-applicable
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:1.0:policy-combining-algorithm:only-one-applicable
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:rule-combining-algorithm:ordered-deny-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:policy-combining-algorithm:ordered-deny-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:rule-combining-algorithm:ordered-permit-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:policy-combining-algorithm:ordered-permit-overrides
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:rule-combining-algorithm:deny-unless-permit
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:rule-combining-algorithm:permit-unless-deny
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:policy-combining-algorithm:deny-unless-permit
        -   urn:oasis:names:tc:xacml:3.0:policy-combining-algorithm:permit-unless-deny
    
    These algorithms are explained in detail as follows,
    
    -   **Deny Overrides:**  
        This combining algorithm combines decisions in such a way that if
        any decision is a Deny, then that decision wins.  
        Deny overrides is one of the safest combining algorithms since it
        favors a Deny decision. However, if none of the children return a
        Deny decision, then the combining algorithm will never produce a
        Deny.  
          
    -   **Permit Overrides:**  
        This combining algorithm combines decisions in such a way that if
        any decision is a Permit, then that decision wins.
    
    The permit overrides combining algorithm can be interesting when:
    
    At least one child must return a Permit for access to be granted overall
    regardless of restrictions.
    
    One wants to return all the reasons why access is being denied. This is
    what one could call a “greedy deny overrides”.Forinstanceifthe reason
    for not being able to view a resource is that(a) you are not the owner
    and (b) you are in the wrong department, then we could rework the
    previous example as follows. When any of the deny reason triggers, the
    response would be denied with all the applicable reasons for access
    being denied:
    
    -   -   Policy Set (deny overrides): role==manager AND action==view AND
            resourceType==resource
            -   Policy 1 (permit overrides)
                -   Rule 1: deny if resourceOwner != userId + Advice(“you
                    are not the owner of the resource”)
                -   Rule 2: deny if rsourceDepartment != userDepartment+
                    Advice(“you are not in the same department as the
                    resource)
            -   Policy 2
                -   Rule 1: permit
    
    <!-- -->
    
    -   **First Applicable:**  
        This combining algorithm combines decisions in such a way that the
        final decision returned is the first one produced either of Permit
        or Deny. **  
        **  
        First applicable is useful to shortcut policy evaluation. For
        instance, if a policy set contains a long series of not applicable
        policies and one applicable policy which returns either of Permit or
        Deny, then if that policy comes first and does produce Permit or
        Deny, the PDP will stop there and not process the other siblings.  
    
    **  
    **
    
    -   **Deny Unless Permit \| Permit Unless Deny:**  
    
        In XACML there are 4 possible decisions: Permit, Deny,
        NotApplicable, and Indeterminate. Sometimes, it is desirable to hide
        the NotApplicable and Indeterminate decisions to only allow for
        Permit or Deny. It makes the PEP logic potentially simpler.
    
    **  
    **
    
    -   **Only One Applicable:**
    
    This combining algorithm exists only for policy sets to combine policy
    sets and policies. It cannot be used to combine rules. With this
    combining algorithm, in order for either of a Permit or Deny to be
    returned, then only one of the children must produce a valid decision –
    whether Deny or Permit.
    
    -   **Ordered Deny Overrides \| Ordered Permit Overrides:**  
        The ordered combining algorithms combine decisions in the same way
        as their (unordered) cousins. In, addition they bring the guarantee
        that policies, policy sets, and rules are considered in the order in
        which they are defined. The need to define an ordered combining
        algorithm stems from the fact the XACML specification does not
        specify whether order matters in the deny-overrides and
        permit-overrides combining algorithms.
    
Click **Finish** / **Upload** depending on the option you chose to
create your policy.

**Related Topics**

To evaluate the policy you just created and see a sample request and
response to it, see [Evaluating a XACML
Policy](_Evaluating_a_XACML_Policy_) .
